There’s a lot of flexibility when it comes to writing paragraphs, but if there’s one steadfast rule, it’s this: Paragraphs should relate to one main topic or point. The paragraph itself often contains multiple points spanning several sentences, but they should all revolve around one core theme. Just as sentences build upon each other to communicate the paragraph’s core theme, paragraphs work together to communicate the core theme of the writing as a whole. Below, we take a close look at what makes up an effective paragraph and explain how to write one that suits your needs. We also cover some advanced tips. But first, let’s start with the fundamentals. Like a scene in a movie or a verse in a song, paragraphs are the building blocks of any good piece of writing. Paragraphs lend a natural rhythm to your writing that makes it a joy to read. The question is, how do you handle them successfully? Like a scene in a movie or a verse in a song, paragraphs are the building blocks of any good piece of writing. Paragraphs lend a natural rhythm to your writing that makes it a joy to read. The question is, how do you handle them successfully? Like a scene in a movie or a verse in a song, paragraphs are the building blocks of any good piece of writing. Paragraphs lend a natural rhythm to your writing that makes it a joy to read. The question is, how do you handle them successfully? Like a scene in a movie or a verse in a song, paragraphs are the building blocks of any good piece of writing. Paragraphs lend a natural rhythm to your writing that makes it a joy to read. The question is, how do you handle them successfully? Like a scene in a movie or a verse in a song, paragraphs are the building blocks of any good piece of writing. Paragraphs lend a natural rhythm to your writing that makes it a joy to read. The question is, how do you handle them successfully? 

That’s the basic idea, but in practice there’s more to it. Let’s look at the four main types of paragraphs to learn how and when to use them. 


